# Data-Mining-in-Engineering
This is the University of Toronto CHE1147 course. 

**Summary:**\
With continuous advances in processing power, storage capacity, sensors, and connectivity of electronic devices, enormous amounts of data are generated by different industries, businesses, tech companies and governments. Extracting useful knowledge 
from data requries interdisciplinary skills in scientific computing methods and algorithms, referred as data science. Companies leverage their data effectively and generate business insights that enable better decision-making. 

**Objectives:**
* The first assignment focuses on Python data structures and linear algebra in Numpy.
* The second assignment includes a criminal investigation case and a simulation on gambling experiment. 
* The third assignment focuses on feature engineering, such as feature creation via aggregation, rolling window features and date-related features. 
* The fourth assignment is a "look into the data" activity that uses unsupervised learning PCA. 
* The fifth assignment compares the performance of various supervised learning models, logistic regression with L1 regularization, decision tree, and random forest
on the dataset generated from the third assignment. Steps to develop each models are: 1. split the data in train and test set; 2. pre-process; 3. fit the training set and optimize the hyperparameters; 4. plot coefficient values or feature importance; 5. plot confusion matrix and ROC curves of train/test set, calculate precision/recall. 
* The sixth assignment reflects on the factors affect model performance, including classes pattern, features quality, and the number of data points. 


